= Sisow

*NOTE* This gem is work in progress. I'm planning to have it ready somewhere in March.

This gem provides an interface to interact with the Sisow payment provider. Sisow offers payments through the iDeal (Dutch),
Bancontact/Mister Cash (Belgian) and Sofort (German) online payment systems.

To use this gem, you'll need a payment account at Sisow (you'll need your <tt>merchant key</tt> and <tt>merchant id</tt>).
The gem is aimed at Rails 3.2 but it should work on older Rails versions as well as in non-Rails apps.

== Installation

To install this gem, simply do <tt>gem install sisow</tt> or add it to your Gemfile:

  gem 'sisow'

And update your bundle with <tt>bundle install</tt>

== Usage

=== Configuration

To be able to use the gem, you must first configure it. If you're on Rails, insert the following code in <tt>config/initializers/sisow.rb</tt>:

  Sisow.setup do |config|
    config.merchant_key = 'your-merchant-key'
    config.merchant_id  = 'your-merchant-id'

    #
    # The following settings are optional
    #
    config.test_mode    = false   # default: false
    config.debug_mode   = false   # default: false
  end

That's it. Once you restart your Rails application (or open a Rails console) you should be able to communicate with
the Sisow API.

=== Getting a list of issuers

To set up a payment, your user needs to choose an issuer (a bank) that will fulfill the payment. To fetch a list of Issuers, use the following command:

  Sisow::Issuer.list

This will return a list of <tt>Sisow::Issuer</tt> objects that have an <tt>id</tt> and a <tt>name</tt>. The <tt>id</tt> is needed
to set up the payment in the following step.

=== Setting up a payment

After choosing an issuer, your user must be redirected to the payment page for that issuer. For that to happen, you'll have to
set up a payment through the Sisow API, after which you'll be given a URL to redirect your user to.

Setting up a payment looks like this:

  payment_attributes = {
    :purchase_id    => '2012-01-28-33558',      # for your own reference
    :issuer_id      => '99',                    # the issuer id from the previous step
    :description    => 'Acme Inc. payment',     # description of this payment
    :amount         => 1299,                    # amount in Euro in cents
    :entrance_code  => 'foobar-foxtrot',        # a verification code you can choose. Cannot contain spaces
    :return_url     => 'http://example.com',    # where the user is sent after the payment
    :cancel_url     => 'http://example.com',    # where the user is sent when he cancels the payment
    :callback_url   => 'http://example.com',    # where a failed (not cancelled) payment will be reported
    :notify_url     => 'http://example.com',    # where the payment status will be reported
  }

  payment = Sisow::IdealPayment.new(payment_attributes)
  redirect_url = payment.payment_url

=== Supported payment methods

This gem supports payments through iDeal, Bancontact/Mister Cash and Sofort. Each of these payment methods have their own class. Payment attributes are the same for each payment method, so in the example above you should only need to switch <tt>Sisow::IdealPayment</tt> for one of the other classes. These are the available class names:

  Sisow::IdealPayment       # for iDeal payment
  Sisow::BancontactPayment  # for Bancontact/Mister Cash payments
  Sisow::SofortPayment      # for Sofort payments

=== Validity checks

The Sisow API has a few safety measures built in, to prevent malicious users from tampering with your payments. These checks are documented in the Sisow API documentation and are implemented in the gem.

== Development

Your contributions are more than welcome. To contribute to this gem, follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository from Github
2. Clone your fork on your development machine
3. Install the dependencies with <tt>bundle install</tt>
4. Copy <tt>spec/sisow.yml.example</tt> to <tt>spec/sisow.yml</tt> and enter your own Sisow credentials
5. Verify your clone is working by running <tt>rspec</tt>
6. Hack away
7. Run the specs with <tt>rspec</tt>
8. Verify spec coverage by opening <tt>coverage/index.html</tt>
9. If all is good: send me a pull request
